well howdy there internet people it's Bo
again so today we're going to try to
answer a question for people because
there's a whole lot of people out there
saying do we really need to reform do we
really need this drastic change is this
whole movement out in the streets is
this even necessary is there anything
that could maybe shut some light on that
and the answer is yes there's a study
out of the University of Chicago Law
School took place from 2015 to 2018 just
kind of when it's been released now what
it set out to do was to monitor 20
cities the twenty largest in the US and
those are New York Los Angeles Chicago
Houston Phoenix Philadelphia San Antonio
San Diego Dallas San Jose Austin
Jacksonville San Francisco Columbus
Indianapolis Fort Worth Charlotte
Seattle Denver and El Paso look at them
through a few different metrics and try
to determine if they were in basic
minimum compliance with just standard
human rights law not looking for
anything drastic here basic minimum
compliance very bottom of the barrel
later the name of the study is deadly
discretion I highly suggest to take a
look at it it's not a long read measured
on four main categories accountability
proportionality necessity and legality
now on the first three accountability
proportionality and necessity some
departments some of those departments
were in compliance by policy you know
but it's that last one where things got
a little weird
legally none not a single one of those
departments is required to maintain
compliance with basic norms with basic
standards none
now aside from just going through and
saying everything that's wrong which it
does it also has a whole bunch of
recommendations and the recommendations
are there are the ones you're hearing in
the street right now for the most part
getting rid of no-knock raids requiring
a lethal force to be as a last resort
rather than the officer was scared
getting rid of qualified immunity all of
this stuff is on there if you run across
anybody that is questioning whether or
not it's really you know necessary if we
really do have a problem this might be a
study to have handy because it's easily
digestible it has a whole bunch of
suggestions and it's pretty clear the
methodology is pretty decent and it's
it's easy to grasp this might be the
thing that can help sway somebody who
just through whatever privilege has no
clue what dealing with law enforcement
might be like for some people I'll try
to get a link and put it down there the
at the end of the day we have a big
problem and it's being highlighted
because of the particular group because
they're suffering the most from it in
certain aspects and in other aspects
it's a different group but it's normally
not people to look like me so it seems
as though this is something that only
applies to them but the fact that none
of these cities are operating under a
legal requirement to maintain compliance
that applies to everybody a lot of
people need self-interest you can hand
it to them right there the
recommendations they're there they're
very simple everything's laid out really
nicely
so it's just something maybe to put in
your bookmarks so when you're talking to
people you have this handy anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good night